Why are there millions of empty houses in Japan? - The Global Story podcast, BBC World Service - YouTube
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ojNm2TxqfN4
    
    (00:00) Hello, I'm Lucy Hockings. From the BBC  World Service, this is The Global Story. In Japan, the number of abandoned homes is at an  all-time high. Nine million properties sit empty,   blighting city streets and turning some  rural communities into ghost towns. So   what do these crumbling houses say about  Japan's existential crisis and its aging,  
    (00:26) shrinking population? And could  a new breed of homeowners, young,   foreign and eager for a bargain,  help to solve the problem? With me today is our Tokyo correspondent,  Shaimaa Khalil. Hi, Shaimaa, how are you?  I'm good, I m good. It's so  good to speak to you, Lucy.  Shaimaa, lovely to see you. Now, if I'm out  and about in a big city in like Tokyo or  
    (00:57) Osaka or Kyoto or even on the countryside, am  I going to see some of these abandoned homes?  Yes, and some of them are more obvious than  others. So if you're in the countryside,   for example, there are homes where nature has  pretty much taken over. So that's a very obvious   sign of an abandoned home. I think here In Tokyo,  for example, there are also obvious older ones,  
    (01:18) but if you're like me and you're a big, avid home  programmes fan and you walk around looking at   houses and wondering how people live inside them, some will be more obvious to you. And then   others are just so deceptive. You walk  around and they look perfectly normal,   but you find out from a broker or real estate  agent or those who bought them that they've  
    (01:40) been abandoned for years and years and years.  So some are more obvious than others, for sure.  And the obvious ones, it's obvious  because they're decaying and decrepit   or they have sort of, you know, foliage  growing out of them. How can you tell?  Exactly. They're in really bad, they're in a  really bad state. They're pretty much falling  
    (02:00) apart. Yeah, so sometimes you just, you can  tell by the state of it that it's, you know,   it's a wooden, very traditional-looking Japanese  home that has seen better days in the middle   of a main street where there are many other  buildings around it. And you could tell that   it's been abandoned for many years. Is this generally, though, Shaimaa,  
    (02:21) seen as a more rural issue? Japan is really suffering   when it comes to urbanisation. And there are  villages that are literally dying out. You know,   for example, there's this remarkable story of  a village called Nagoro. It's literally just a,   you know, 20-something people, a couple  dozen people. And what they've done,  
    (02:40) they've made human-sized dolls to replace people  and just put them around the village in schools   and bus stops in different areas. And while on  the face of it, it's a cute and innovative idea,   it's actually quite unsettling because you can  see that it's literally running out of people. The   majority of the abandoned homes are in villages. However, there are actually more abandoned  
    (03:01) homes in cities here in Tokyo even, more than I  imagined and I've been taken to a couple of them.  Do the Japanese have a word for  these abandoned homes, Shaimaa?  Yes, Akiyas. It's called Akiya. Essentially,  it means empty home, but right now it's used   interchangeably with abandoned homes as well,  homes that have been empty for many, many years. 
    (03:23) How did it get to this  point? Why are there so many?  If you're sitting anywhere in the world right  now where there is a housing problem where   young people are finding it very, very  difficult to get on the property market,   to actually think there's a place in the world  where there are nine million homes that are empty,  
    (03:37) ready for someone to occupy them, it's  quite, I still try to get my head around it,   but essentially it's an aging population, It's a  shrinking population. More people are dying than   there are people being born here. Combine that  with people leaving villages and coming to the   city, so the urbanisation, and you get those  villages of people dying out, of homes that  
    (04:00) are not worth much, that are just left abandoned. So for these Akiyas, it's not so much a problem   of too many houses, it's a problem of not  enough people. But Japan's not the only   country experiencing this Shaimaa. What about  South Korea? I mean, there are neighbouring   countries with low birth rates as well.  Why are the Akiyas a big issue in Japan? 
    (04:20) I think there are a couple of reasons. One is  cultural. I think the majority of Japanese people   tend to want to live in brand new homes. This is a  country that has many, many earthquakes, you know,   with different strengths. But let's just say there  are homes that get affected by earthquakes or get  
    (04:37) destroyed by earthquakes. Instead of renovating,  people would prefer to just build anew. So   that's one thing. I think economically as well,  there is a depreciation in the value of homes,   unlike the West and unlike anywhere else in the  world, actually. And so you have this picture in   Japan where homes are not worth much, people  who live in them and then die, and they leave  
    (05:00) them to family members, and everything about that  house then is more costly than it is profitable   because it costs money to empty it, putting it on  the market, trying to sell it, all the paperwork   that comes with that, it just becomes not worth  it for family members. So it becomes cheaper   for people just to leave them abandoned,  and that's why you get that large number. 
    (05:22) And presumably, Shaimaa, if you're  leaving your home to the next generation,   and there isn't anyone to leave it to,  there's no heirs, what do you do with it?  This is a country that suffers, or that is  suffering with a phenomenon of 'lonely deaths',   of people who die alone and then  they don't have family members,  
    (05:38) so people don't claim their remains for  example. So they don't claim their remains,   they're not going to claim their homes. So it's  almost like the homes die when the people die.  It must have been interesting as well just the  whole culture of older homes Shaimaa, living   in London everyone wants to live in an historic  property and yet in Japan it's the exact opposite? 
    (05:59) Yeah it's a completely different culture,  it's a completely different ballgame. The   fact that a value of a home is how new it is,  how structurally robust it is and that comes   from newer homes and so yeah the concept of  older homes here is not as valued or is not as   romanticised, if you will, as it is in the West. One thing that is the same all over the world, the  
    (06:22) West, and it sounds like Japan, too, is that young  people don't want to go and live in the country.  That is very, very true. And I think that's one  thing that you see more acutely here in Japan,   in rural areas is that when you go, you can see  them shrinking. I think the concept on its own of  
    (06:38) an empty home seems benign, but actually it's not  because if you're a village that's emptying out,   it's almost like you're going extinct because  it becomes a ghost town and it becomes more   off-putting the emptier it is and it becomes less  of a good option for a young family to go live in   an area that's emptying out. Why do the local councils  
    (07:01) not just knock these homes down? When you knock them down, you need   permissions from family members and from those who  inherit. I think this is where it gets complicated   because the homes themselves are not valuable. The  land is valuable. But who gets the land? How do   you track people down, for example? Because again,  if people die and leave a home, you need to track  
    (07:21) those family members down. And if they haven't  followed up and if they're hard to find because,   for example, they're not in Japan or they live  in Tokyo somewhere and not in the village,   that becomes a very difficult proposition. But  also, what do you do with the land? Who gets   rights to the land? So as long as they're homes,  it's almost like it's a contained problem, when  
    (07:43) they become land that becomes a different problem. Any conversation about Japan, it doesn't matter   how short or long, earthquakes come up. It's  come up a few times already in our conversation,   Shaimaa. But given how earthquake-prone Japan  is, empty houses sitting there surely also   present some kind of hazard. Is that an issue? Yes. I've seen that firsthand. You know,  
    (08:06) in the new year, when an earthquake happened  in the Noto Peninsula, when you go there and   you see the smaller villages, and you see older  houses that have either been completely destroyed   or they've been affected and they're kind  of like leaning on their side waiting to be   destroyed or waiting to completely collapse, that  is actually dangerous for the houses next to them  
    (08:28) and the houses on the other side of the road.  And I've seen that in many of the streets where   people have trouble getting into their own home,  not because the home itself has been affected,  but because these older houses are in danger  of collapsing. So you're absolutely right.   These empty homes in a country that is so  earthquake prone become a problem for the  
    (08:48) neighbours and the neighbourhoods they're in. Shaimaa you've already mentioned there is a   housing crisis around the world. Young people  as well find it really difficult, I think,   here in the UK to get on the housing ladder and  to buy a home. Are there foreigners sitting here   looking at the real estate pages in Japan going,  here is a massive opportunity for me to go and  
    (09:06) get an affordable home somewhere beautiful? Yeah, I think many foreigners are waking up to   the fact that this is an opportunity. I've spoken  to a couple of people, for example, one of them,   who is now a TikTok phenomenon. His name is Anton  Wormann. He is from Sweden, from Stockholm. He is   a model who's now turned renovator, and he went  viral, because essentially what he did is he  
    (09:29) bought an Akiya, and he chronicled his journey  into this fixer-upper in the middle of Tokyo. Wow. Welcome, welcome. So I spent about   a year into making this house beautiful again. I was just going to say it doesn't   look abandoned to me. No, it's not abandoned. It was   abandoned for about 10 years. Oh, okay. 
    (09:51) And when I got the keys to this house, it  was things literally everywhere. Japan has   a scarcity of space and just getting rid of  things, getting rid of trash getting rid of   debris costs a lot of money and also a lot of  time. So the houses just gets abandoned that way. I have to say this combines two of my guilty  pleasures. Not only do I love like you Shaimaa  
    (10:13) home renovation shows, I love shows about buying a  property abroad, somewhere in the sun or somewhere   different. So it's the combination of these  two things. But for these people, is it about   gaining followers or are they really trying to  say this is an affordable, good option for you?  I don't know. I think it's a combination  of both. I think it taps into something  
    (10:35) that just translates and transcends everywhere  in the world. I think no matter where you are,   the idea of owning a home, the idea of turning  it from something that's derelict and old and   abandoned to something beautiful and liveable.  You know, it just appeals to so many people.  Tourism is doing really well in Japan. Lots of  people are now going not just to Tokyo, but to all  
    (11:00) over the country. So surely these Akiyas would  be great to be used as guest houses or cafes?  Yes, and this is what Anton is doing. In fact,  he liked it so much. He started his second Akiya   project. He showed it to me. And it was really  interesting to into his second home because you   see it from the beginning when they were laying  down concrete slabs, they're making sure it's  
    (11:22) earthquake safe and it is a lot of work because  you see for example that there are so many things   that were left by the previous owner that he had  to that he had to let go of, deciding what to do,   deciding what to throw away, what to keep. But  essentially his first property, he now rents   it out for visitors, rents it out short term,  when his family comes to visit. And so it is  
    (11:47) a lucrative business opportunity for people who  are willing to put in the work. And as you say,   I think tourism has picked up quite a bit. This  year was phenomenal in the number of tourists that   have come to Japan. I think in one month, there  were about 3 million, if not more. Just the fact  
    (12:04) that technology and translation apps is a lot more  advanced. Japan has become much more accessible,   not just the big touristy areas, but you can go  into these nooks and crannies of some villages   and explore because you can get access to  them. So if Akiyas then turn out to be this   new phenomenon where more tourists are coming in,  more people are investing in these empty homes,  
    (12:29) That's actually a win-win situation because all  of these villages, all of the local governments,   would then say, look, well, this could be  a new lease of life for those villages.  So Shaimaa, what are the foreigners doing  once they've renovated, bought and renovated   the Akiya? Are they staying put and living  there or using them to set up a business? 
    (12:51) Some of the foreigners who are coming, they're  coming because they want to have a foot in Japan.   So, for example, they live in America, they live  in the UK, they live anywhere in Europe, and this   is an affordable option for them to come and have  a holiday home, you know, in the mountains or by  
    (13:06) the beach in Japan. But, for example, I've met  a couple. The husband is from the UK originally.   The wife is Japanese, and they've just had a  baby boy. His name is Sam. Her name is Nanami   and their baby boy is baby Aiden. And Sam's been  living in Japan for about seven years, I think,   or even more. And, you know, Nanami is from Tokyo.  And they've decided that they just wanted more for  
    (13:27) their money. So what was interesting about their  case and their journey is that they almost paid   the same amount of money Anton paid for his home.  I think they paid $100,000, but their country home   is a lot bigger. And when I asked Sam why he did  it, he said, it's just bulks more that I can get  
    (13:43) for this kind of money in the UK. It's a huge  house with a land and a big garden overlooking   the mountains. It's just beautiful and they just  wouldn't get that anywhere else in the world,   especially in Europe and especially in the  UK. And so this was about a lifestyle choice. I definitely think if we had done a new  build, that would have been a lot easier  
    (14:04) and straightforward, probably affordable  and quicker. But it's such a beautiful   house and you just kind of think like It's nice to  preserve that and to, you know, extend its life. Shaimaa, what do the Japanese think about  foreigners coming in and buying up these Akiyas?  So far, I don't think that we've seen  any negative reaction because remember,  
    (14:24) the foreigners who come here are not tapping  into something that the Japanese want or that   the Japanese have expressed interest in. This  is very much still a novel phenomena. This   is something that foreigners have caught on to  because, again, of the housing crisis, because of   the idea that these homes could be renovated  because they come from renovation culture. 
    (14:54) Everything that we're talking about, though, in  the grand scheme of things, it probably barely   makes a dent, Shaimaa. So does the Government  actually have a plan to deal with the Akiyas?  Yeah, I mean, so far, we're talking about hundreds  of people that are interested in these Akiyas,   a few hundred that take them on and actually buy  these Akiyas and transform them and renovate them.  
    (15:17) With government statistics by the year 2038,  if I'm not mistaken, one in every three homes   in Japan is going to be abandoned. That is a huge  number, and I think they're trying to tackle it in   different ways. There are local governments,  local municipalities or local governments in   these villages that are trying to give away these  homes for free, just to say, come, find something  
    (15:43) to do with this house, make it a cafe, make it a  business, come and live in it, but just, in a way,   just breathe life into this village. But it's a  huge problem and again, it comes back to the core   of Japan's population crisis. The Government  has been trying many things. The Government   has been trying to tackle the population crisis  for a long, long time now. And I think you have  
    (16:07) to deal with the core of it, which is that you  need more people in this country to occupy these   homes. But these existing empty homes also  need to be either reused, renovated, or just   have people in them to give them a new lease of  life. And it's not just about the physical homes,   it's about how do you make those homes lucrative?  How do you make those homes liveable? And a lot  
    (16:32) of that has to do with, do you have schools  around you for your kids? Do you have hospitals,   et cetera? And so It's a whole infrastructure  system that needs to happen around these homes.  Shaimaa, the Prime Minister,  Fumio Kishida, has actually said,   and it was such a dramatic statement, that Japan  is on the brink of no longer even being able to  
    (16:53) function as a society because of this massive  demographic problem that you've described to us.  What's his way out of it? It was very unusual for him to sound   so alarmed when he's actually alarmed. They're  trying to come up with ways and incentives for   families to move to outside of the cities and into  some places in the countryside. They're trying  
    (17:17) financial incentives and financial aid to families  with more children. It's about trying to shift the   culture so that more people are getting married,  more people are having babies in your own country,  but also welcoming more people into your  own country so that more people than occupy   all of these empty spaces that you have. These houses, these Aykias though, Shaimaa,  
    (17:38) they tell a much richer, bigger story  about what is happening in the country.  These Akiyas essentially tell the story of Japan  at this very moment, the crisis that Japan is   facing, the fact that this is a country that's  facing a shrinking, aging population, essentially   a population crisis. Essentially people die, yhey  leave behind homes that don't hold much value,  
    (18:02) that no one wants. And essentially what they tell  you is that this is a country that's emptying out   and that is trying to find a solution to  give itself, to give society and to give   these homes a new lease of life. Arigato gozaimasu Shaimaa.  Arigato gozaimasu. Thank you, Shaima.  Thanks, Lucy. It's such a  pleasure. Lovely to talk to you. 
    (18:28) And thank you so much for watching. If you  want more episodes of The Global Story,   you can find us wherever you get your podcasts.  You can also subscribe, and don't forget to   leave your comments about today's program  in the section below. Thanks for watching.

