When I got home, I decided to tell nay dad what had happened. We've always been pretty close. But we've become even closer since my folks split up, and Dad got his own apartment. I can tell my dad anything at all. And he always understands.
"I don't understand," said my dad. "You say you think you can read people's minds?""No, Dad," I said. "I don't think I can. I know I can."
"I'm sorry, Zack," he said, "but that doesn't seem possible."
"Oh, it's possible, all right," I said.
"OK then. What am I thinking right now? Right this very minute?"
"Here is what you're thinking," I said.
"Maybe the divorce is finally getting to me.
Maybe you ought to send me to that child psychologist."
His mouth dropped open.
"How did you know that's what I was thinking?" he whispered.
"Dad, I already told you," I said. "I read minds. It happened in science class. I got an electric shock."
"OK, what am I thinking now?"
"You're hoping the psychologist is free next Monday," I said. "Dad, trust me. This has nothing to do with the divorce." He sighed and shook his head.
"This is amazing," he said. "Truly amazing. OK, what number am I thinking of?"
"Eighty-seven," I said. "Dad, I need your advice about something I heard in school.
Somebody is plotting a murder."
He looked at me very seriously and narrowed his eyes.
"What animal am I thinking of?" he asked.
"A duck-billed platypus,"
I
said
impatiently. "Dad, didn't you hear what I said? Somebody in school is plotting a murder."
"I'm sorry, Zack" he said. "It's just pretty incredible to find out your son is a mind reader. But you nailed everything I was thinking. Including the eighty-seven and the duck-billed platypus. Now what's all this about somebody plotting a murder?"
"I picked up somebody's thoughts. They said they were going to kill someone.
Tomorrow. I can't believe it could be one of the kids in my class. Maybe it's the janitor.
He's very weird. Anytime we hang around his office in the basement, he yells at us.
Once he said if we didn't stop bothering him, he'd kill us."
"Oh, that's just an expression," said my dad. "People say that kind of thing all the time. It doesn't mean they're killers."
Dad had a point. But if it wasn't Mr.
Hogmeister, who was it? Mrs. Coleman-Levin?

"Dad, you've met Mrs. Coleman-Levin.
Did she strike you as the murdering type?"
"Of course not. You're really being silly, Zack," Dad said with a wave of his hand.
Then he focused his eyes on me. "OK, now. What famous singer am I thinking of?
If you can do this every time, I could get you on The Tonight Show."
I tuned Dad out. It was clear he wasn't taking this seriously. But then, he hadn't heard that scary voice saying, "Kill...Kill!" Somebody's life was in danger. And I was going to have to solve this mystery on my own. So far I had two main suspects: Mr.
Hogmeister and Mrs. Coleman-Levin.
And in case you're wondering which famous singer Dad was thinking of, it was Barry Manilow. Gross!
